README.md, before:

yii2-mailqueue
==============

Email queue component for yii2 that works with [yii2-swiftmailer](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/ext-swiftmailer-index.html)


Installation
------------

The preferred way to install this extension is through [composer](http://getcomposer.org/download/).

Either run

```
php composer.phar require --prefer-dist nterms/yii2-mailqueue "*"
```

or add

```
"nterms/yii2-mailqueue": "*"
```

to the require section of your `composer.json` file.

 
Configuration
-------------
Once the extension is installed, add following code to your application configuration :

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
			'mailsPerRound' => 10,
			'maxAttempts' => 3,
        ],
    ],
];
```

Following properties are available for customizing the mail queue behavior.

- `table`: Name of the database table to store emails added to the queue.
- `mailsPerRound`: Number of emails to send at a time.
- `maxAttempts`: Maximum number of sending attempts per email.


Updating database schema
------------------------

Apply the database migration to create the table required to store the mail queue messages. To do this, 
add following code to `/config/console.php`:

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
        ],
    ],
];
```

then run `yii migrate` command in command line:

```
php yii migrate/up --migrationPath=@vendor/nterms/yii2-mailqueue/migrations/
```

Processing the mail queue
-------------------------

Now calling `process()` on `Yii::$app->mailqueue` will process the message queue and send out the emails. 
In one of your controller actions:

```php

public function actionSend()
{
	Yii::$app->mailqueue->process();
}

```

Most preferably this could be a console command (eg: mail/send) which can be triggered by a CRON job.


Setting the CRON job
--------------------

Set a CRON job to run console command:

```

*/10 * * * * php /var/www/html/myapp/yii mailqueue/process

```


Usage
-----

You can then send an email to the queue as follows:

```php
Yii::$app->mailqueue->compose('contact/html')
     ->setFrom('from@domain.com')
     ->setTo($form->email)
     ->setSubject($form->subject)
     ->setTextBody($form->body)
     ->queue();
```

While `nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue` extends from `yii\swiftmailer\Mailer`, you can replace it with this extension by adding 
`yii2-swiftmailer` configuations directly to `mailqueue` configurations as follows:

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
			'mailsPerRound' => 10,
			'maxAttempts' => 3,
			'transport' => [
				'class' => 'Swift_SmtpTransport',
				'host' => 'localhost',
				'username' => 'username',
				'password' => 'password',
				'port' => '587',
				'encryption' => 'tls',
			],
        ],
    ],
];
```

And use following code for directly sending emails as you ususally do with `yii2-swiftmailer`:

```php
Yii::$app->mailqueue->compose('contact/html')
     ->setFrom('from@domain.com')
     ->setTo($form->email)
     ->setSubject($form->subject)
     ->setTextBody($form->body)
     ->send();
```

License
-------

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Refs #52: adds priority to emails in the queue. Closes #52

README.md, after:

yii2-mailqueue
==============

Email queue component for yii2 that works with [yii2-swiftmailer](http://www.yiiframework.com/doc-2.0/ext-swiftmailer-index.html)


Installation
------------

The preferred way to install this extension is through [composer](http://getcomposer.org/download/).

Either run

```
php composer.phar require --prefer-dist nterms/yii2-mailqueue "*"
```

or add

```
"nterms/yii2-mailqueue": "*"
```

to the require section of your `composer.json` file.

 
Configuration
-------------
Once the extension is installed, add following code to your application configuration :

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
			'mailsPerRound' => 10,
			'maxAttempts' => 3,
        ],
    ],
];
```

Following properties are available for customizing the mail queue behavior.

- `table`: Name of the database table to store emails added to the queue.
- `mailsPerRound`: Number of emails to send at a time.
- `maxAttempts`: Maximum number of sending attempts per email.


Updating database schema
------------------------

Apply the database migration to create the table required to store the mail queue messages. To do this, 
add following code to `/config/console.php`:

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
        ],
    ],
];
```

then run `yii migrate` command in command line:

```
php yii migrate/up --migrationPath=@vendor/nterms/yii2-mailqueue/migrations/
```

Processing the mail queue
-------------------------

Now calling `process()` on `Yii::$app->mailqueue` will process the message queue and send out the emails. 
In one of your controller actions:

```php

public function actionSend()
{
	Yii::$app->mailqueue->process();
}

```

Most preferably this could be a console command (eg: mail/send) which can be triggered by a CRON job.


Setting the CRON job
--------------------

Set a CRON job to run console command:

```

*/10 * * * * php /var/www/html/myapp/yii mailqueue/process

```


Usage
-----

You can then send an email to the queue as follows:

```php
Yii::$app->mailqueue->compose('contact/html')
     ->setFrom('from@domain.com')
     ->setTo($form->email)
     ->setSubject($form->subject)
     ->setTextBody($form->body)
     ->queue();
```

While `nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue` extends from `yii\swiftmailer\Mailer`, you can replace it with this extension by adding 
`yii2-swiftmailer` configuations directly to `mailqueue` configurations as follows:

```php
return [
    //....
    'components' => [
        'mailqueue' => [
            'class' => 'nterms\mailqueue\MailQueue',
			'table' => '{{%mail_queue}}',
			'mailsPerRound' => 10,
			'maxAttempts' => 3,
			'transport' => [
				'class' => 'Swift_SmtpTransport',
				'host' => 'localhost',
				'username' => 'username',
				'password' => 'password',
				'port' => '587',
				'encryption' => 'tls',
			],
        ],
    ],
];
```

And use following code for directly sending emails as you ususally do with `yii2-swiftmailer`:

```php
Yii::$app->mailqueue->compose('contact/html')
     ->setFrom('from@domain.com')
     ->setTo($form->email)
     ->setSubject($form->subject)
     ->setTextBody($form->body)
     ->send();
```

Priorities
----------

You can set a priority to the message:

```php
Yii::$app->mailqueue->compose('contact/html')
     ->setQueuePriority(500)
     ->setFrom('from@domain.com')
     ->setTo($form->email)
     ->setSubject($form->subject)
     ->setTextBody($form->body)
     ->queue();
```

Default priority is 1000 so passing any lower number will make that that emails gets sent before others. 

In the same way, if you pass a number bigger than 1000, those messages are going to have very low priority in the queue. 

Why 1000 as default? Just to give enough room to accomodate at most 999 other priorities.

License
-------

[MIT](LICENSE)
